Was this easier or harder than you expected?
If you manage to do it and it works.
Congratulations from the bottom of my heart.
Oh, when you see our solution, it might be a little bit different than yours, but hopefully your
solution works.
So congrats.
If you have not been able to solve it and you felt a little overwhelmed, don't worry about it.
It's normal.
The important thing is that you tried, that you identified which aspects caused your problem.
So now we can work on it together and get it working.
There's nothing better to learn Python deeply than encountering and fixing our problems.
All right, I'm going to pass it over to Federico to solve your commission problem over in pitch time.
And now we're in Python, ready to start solving our challenge.
For that, we're going to start from scratch by creating the file, but this time we're not going through
project here.
I'm going to right click directly up here where I have my folder path.
We're going to choose day two to right click.
We choose new file and it's the same thing.
This one will be named Commission's dot p y.
Never forget the p ext and we already have our blank sheet to start programming.
And what are we going to program?
Let's start by creating two questions.
We want the user to give us his name and how many sales he's had this month.
So we're going to store the name in a variable called name, and that variable is going to store the
input of the user.
When we ask him, please tell me your name, colon space.
And the second variable is going to be the sales.
And this is also going to come from an input.
It is going to be what the user enters when we ask him, please input your total month sales colon space
and we already have the two questions and the two answers stored in variables.
But here we need to do something.
One of these variables sales.
We need to transform its data into an integer because as you should remember, users inputs always come
as strings.
So let's overwrite sales by making it equal to an integer which is generated from the sales value.
Remember that this is how we do casting.
We say what type of data we want to get, and then in brackets the original data that we want to transform.
If in this case the user would enter a text, for example, hello.
When we're asking for their sales, which will be a number, then the conversion would give back an
error because we cannot transform a text to like hello in a number.
So that would give an error.
Later on we're going to see how to handle the errors and also how to make it so the user can only enter
numbers if that's what we want, but we're going to see that later on in the course.
In the meantime, we're going to have to deal with trusting that the user is going to enter the text
exactly in the way we ask for.
Well, we already have our sales value transformed into an integer and now we can do operations with
it.
Then we can calculate that commission, which we're going to store in a new variable with that name,
and we're going to make commission equal to sales whatever the user entered times 13, which is the
percentage we want and divided by 100.
And there we have the percentage.
Remember that if I had not made this conversion here, I could not in any way make calculations based
on the sales content because the system would give me an error.
It would not allow me to move forward.
But here I was able to because of the conversion.
And now that I've done that, I need to make sure the user gets a rounded number with two decimal places.
So we're going to override the variable commission and this time we're going to make it equal to the
round of commission.
And then what we have here is the result of this operation.
But round it now we're able to print on the screen a sentence that we're going to create using a little
string.
So we put the F to be able to compose it easily.
And as we said, the first thing we have to do is greet the user using their name somewhere in the sentence.
So I'm going to write Hello and between the brackets name, which is the variable that contains the
name comma.
And then I'm going to say your commissions this month are then I put the dollar sign, I open another
bracket and there I can now put commission, which is the calculated value of their commissions.
Will my program run?
Fine, let's see.
Let's go to run.
And we choose commissions.
And it says, please tell me your name.
Well, my name is Federico.
Please input your total month sales, let's say 5000.
And it says, Hello, Federico, your commissions this month are 650.
I notice now that here I have made a rounding where I didn't ask for any amount of decimals, so by
default Python rounded it to a whole number.
But if I say here that I want two decimals, I can run it again.
And we say Federico again, we say 5000 again, and that tells me 650.0.
Well, this code works and it's effective, but it's not quite efficient because it could be better.
In fact, I could, for example, abbreviate here a line instead of doing the conversion after the input,
I can eliminate this and ask directly that when the sales variable is generated, there's not only the
user's input but also the conversion is made here that is in an integer generated by the user's input.
So now I've saved the line by making it all on the same line.
I could also save something else if I have a line here that calculates the commission and then another
one that rounds to it, how about if I eliminate this one that rounds and I do the rounding right here?
I want commission to be equal to the rounding of sales by 13 divided by 100.
Let's sell it to two decimal places here and we close the brackets.
So we're rounding in the same act that I do.
The calculation and this has also saved me another line if I run this, it will work exactly the same
35,000 and it tells me, hello fella, your commission for this month is etcetera.
So it's the same.
You could have done it one way or the other.
The advantage of this way is doing it is the code is more efficient because it takes up less space.
The disadvantage that it is less readable, it's a little bit less readable than the previous one because
the steps grouped in a few lines, but they're all good code.
So whichever one you did and it worked, it's valid.
Congratulations.
So don't miss the next lecture, which is one of those special lectures I love to have, so I'll expect
you there.